# 2019-10-20

The point of this is to experiment with building a very distributed application with Rust.

The game is an after thought.

The application is a psuedo real time strategy game running with multiple clients coordinated through a message broker and accessed via a http api.

Litterally everything else is undecided.

# Thoughts/Options

The game most likely will be centered around resource management and growth.  A typical empire type builder.
Units will have command queues, they will pop commands from the queues and do those actions.  The HTTP interface
will focus on managing those command queues.

What is the messaging system?  Obvious options RabbitMQ, Kafka, ActiveMQ, Redis, SQL



Most simple interaction....

two clients both pull messages to indicate they're trying to consume the same resource how does that play out?

There's a single accounts ledger.

Multiple clients put a claim on an account.  If there's not enough funds then no funds are moved.  If there's enough
both units get funds.  Funds could be the iron you're minning.

The world has to have some sort of march of time.

Each turn, all the clients could publish the work to do into a shared message queue.  Each worker could pull the
work out apply the work.  The the work could be resolved, which maybe puts stuff back in queues to get distributed.


In the most simple itteration....

Multiple resources of one type exist, they can be addressed some how.  They have a value or quantity
Multiple actors exist, they can all be addressed some how.
The actors all try to claim resources.  They hold a value of resources.

During a tick each actor looses one unit
They try to claim one unit from a resource pool.
If all the agents claims on the resource pool can be satisfied they all get it.
If not no one gets it.
Each unit claimed resuces the resouce pool by one
Each unit claimed raises the agents pool by one.

Repeat

Whoe eve


Options
===========

  Have a FIFO queue of work.

  Have another list of in progress work.

  clients can take from the queu any time there's work in the queu.

  When the work queue is empty, then X more time is given for the in progress to zero out.

  If not the in progress is put back into the work queue.

  THis does mean the work part has to be idempotent.

  The master lets it drain.

  What does it do if some in progress work never gets finished?

  I could build up a giant transaction that a single thread commits.

  don't start filling it until it's empty

  Every agent declares it's actions, example: Agent #13 is taking Resource #33

  The declared actions are grouped by resource
    Resources #33 shuffles list of agents consuming it and distributes resources first come first server.



  resources are hash in redis
  Agents have action FIFO queues.

  Something could read move all the agent queued messages into a round queue


  I could hold the entire thing in memory.  Then once per cycle write the entire thing to the database
  that's shared with the api





GETSET = get the count and set to 0
INCR/DECR



That means the work has to be redoable!.  So I could only add the request for agent X to the resource queue if
it wasn't already in there.
